
libMesh Finite Element Library: Design, Use, and Abuse


The Multiphysics Object-Oriented Simulation Environment (MOOSE)
framework is the foundation of dozens of scientific and engineering
applications developed at Idaho National Laboratory (INL) and
elsewhere, as well as being a powerful simulation tool in its own
right.  MOOSE itself was founded using libMesh, an open source library
originally created for academic research into adaptive finite element
methods for computational fluid dynamics problems which over the last
twenty years has grown far beyond those roots.  We will discuss the
history and philosophy behind libMesh development, from the wisest
decisions that led to the library's longevity to the design mistakes
that have limited it or that have since been overcome, we will quickly
review the basic design and usage of the most common libMesh
subsystems, and we will discuss the challenges and opportunities of
writing libMesh code that works with its most advanced features.


Dr. Roy Stogner is a Computational Scientist in the Computational
Frameworks department at INL.  He received his B.S. in Mechanical
Engineering from Rice University, and his Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics
from the University of Texas at Austin.  It was at U.T. Austin that
Dr. Stogner became an early developer and eventually the chief
architect of the libMesh library, which he used first for research
into adaptive finite elements for fourth-order partial differential
equations (PDEs), and later into finite element methods for hypersonic
flow problems and as a foundation for uncertainty quantification of
PDE-governed systems.  At INL he is still the chief architect of
libMesh among other MOOSE dependencies, and is a core developer of the
MOOSE framework itself.
